Datamatch is still online at http://hcs.harvard.edu/datamatch, but only
for 12 more hours!

We are now in the final stretch of the 10th run of the Harvard Computer
Society's famous Datamatch system. You must sign up by midnight tonight to
find out the identity of your soulmate. Last year, over 3000 people
contacted us after the deadline, only to be turned away due to our
laziness and inflexibility. Don't let this happen to you.

What do you get for signing up for Datamatch? A free list of the 10
Datamatch participants most compatible with you. And nothing else. We
won't share your information with your dates. We won't share your name or
email address with anyone. We won't install spyware on your computer. We
won't sign you up for any mailing lists unless you ask politely. There's
absolutely no reason not to sign up, unless you're already in a
relationship, and even then, it's always good to have a back up plan, you
know?

So sign up for Datamatch today. In fact, do it right now, while the
address is on the screen. It's a good way to procrastinate, and a great
way to fall in love.

Now, before you go, take a look at some great moments in the history of
Datamatch:

1995 - Datamatch is released. Harvard Crimson editorials wistfully predict
the end of traditional matchmaking in 2-5 years, quote T.S. Eliot '10 on
tradition, R. Emerson 1821 on hobgoblins.

1996 - Due to a bizarre technical glitch, Jonathan Reeves '96-97 is at the
top of every Datamatch participant's compatibility list. In a hilarious
twist, Reeves' inbox becomes full, causing him to fail to receive an
important core assignment, ultimately delaying his graduation by one year.

1997 - Datamatch is canceled due to preoccupation of HCS with Reeves
lawsuit.

1998 - Datamatch is briefly spun off as Datamatch.com, Inc., a Delaware
corporation. Despite several commercials during the 1998 Super Bowl,
the company fails to achieve a profit, perhaps due to their policy of
neither charging customers nor accepting advertisements.
In June, Datamatch is quietly reabsorbed by HCS.

1999 - HCS considers updating Datamatch look and feel. We don't get around
to it.

2000 - See 1999.

2001 - See 2000.

2002 - See 2001.

2003 - Datamatch receives threatening letter from Recording Industry
Association of America demanding we cease and desist all operations
immediately. Further investigation shows that then mailing address of
"Datamatch, Box 20" was interpreted as name of popular recording artist.

2004 - Google releases Google Match, a program which locates users'
soulmates with 100% accuracy and, strangely, no need to enter any personal
information. However, Google Match is soon pulled from the web for unknown
reasons, leaving Datamatch to fill the void.

2005 - Datamatch helps you find your unique soulmate, presuming such
soulmate attends Harvard. Otherwise, we will send you the names of 10
randomly chosen people.
