Contact: Hanzi Zhang, Vice-President For Communications, HCS
E-mail: communications@hcs.harvard.edu
Telephone:

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Harvard Computer Society Announces Datamatch 2009!

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - 8 February 2009 UTC
The Harvard Computer Society, the premier student technology
organization at Harvard since 1983, has announced the return of
Datamatch, its wildly-popular Valentine's Day matchmaking
service. Datamatch 2009 represents the service's 16th continuous year
of operation and marks a significant step forward in new features and
capabilities.

The survey is available at http://hcs.harvard.edu/datamatch. Students
who sign up by February 13th at 11:59 PM will be asked to complete a
short survey detailing their personality. Based on those answers, a
complex computer algorithm using proprietary artificial intelligence
techniques combined with over 15 years of data on the Harvard social
scene will determine ten candidate matches, ranked by a compatibility
score. Participants will receive their matches in an e-mail on
February 14th.

"We're very proud of Datamatch and its history" said former HCS
President Joshua A. Kroll '09. "It's always been one of our most
popular services, ever since it was started in 1994. I think people
are drawn to the idea that love is a complex emotion and computers are
good with complex things. It just seems natural. In many years, we've
had over a third of the undergraduate population at Harvard
participating. Before Yardfest, it was the largest annual event on
campus."

This year, Datamatch has gotten some major improvements. "We felt the
website needed some refreshing, since it was built on the original
1994 framework," noted HCS President Keito Uchiyama '11. "A lot has
changed in the last 15 years, and we felt it was time the website
reflected that. Plus, it looks a lot nicer now." This year, the site
will support answer changing until the deadline, through special links
e-mailed to every user. The site also has what Uchiyama called
"certain special features" which will allow for more interactive
questions to be written in the future.

"We put a lot of effort into our question writing," said HCS
Vice-President for Projects Joseph P. Zimmerman '10. "It's important
that questions be revealing of personal character, or else they won't
generate good matches."

When asked how many long-term relationships had come of Datamatch
Kroll laughed, "I don't think we've every been able to find a good way
to track those sorts of things. Oh there are stories - I've personally
known people who would never have met but for that fateful February
14th e-mail, and now they can't be without each other."

"But the most important thing to us," Kroll added, "is that people
have fun, because really that's what Valentine's Day is all about."

The Harvard Computer Society is a student organization at Harvard
devoted to technology and its responsible uses around the world. Since
its founding in 1983, HCS has been a force on campus, providing
Harvard's first student-accessible web services, connecting students
to the campus network, and serving as an advocate for sensible
technology policy. Since 1994, HCS has also provided a suite of
student computing services, including the very popular mailing list
service, which now sports over 4500 mailing lists and serves many
thousands of users every day. More information can be found at
http://www.hcs.harvard.edu.

# # #